README.md, before:

# Landscape 360 | Professional-grade 3D terrain engine for outdoor enthusiasts platform.

![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)
![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-2.0.0-green.svg)
![Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-production-orange.svg)
![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/react-v19.0.0-blue)
![PWA](https://img.shields.io/badge/PWA-Supported-purple)

**Landscape 360** is a high-performance, web-based geospatial analysis platform designed for professionals. It combines precision 3D mapping, real-time contour generation, and advanced survey tools into a seamless browser experience.

<p align="center">
  <img src="src/assets/wp.png" width="600" alt="Landscape360 Watermark Preview" />
</p>

## 🚀 Key Features

### 🌍 Advanced Visualization
- **Dual-View Engine**: Seamlessly switch between **2D Topographic** and **3D Terrain** modes.
- **Dynamic Contours**: Real-time client-side contour generation using `Turf.js` based on viewport elevation data.
- **Multi-Style Maps**: Switch between **Streets** (Vector), **Outdoors** (Topo), and **Satellite Streets** (Imagery) for versatile context.
- **Split-Screen Mode**: Compare 2D and 3D perspectives side-by-side with synchronized camera movement.
- **Map Controller**: Intuitive Zoom In/Out buttons and simplified gesture controls for desktop and mobile.
- **Data Source & Attribution (POIs) **: Toggleable POI (Points of Interest) layer built from independently curated GeoJSON data. Supports clustering for large datasets to ensure optimal map performance and clarity..
- **Carousel UI (Mobile)**: Optimized "Tools & Exploration" panel with horizontal swipe interaction for better usability on small screens.

### 📍 Navigation & Survey
- **Instant Geolocation**: "Start Your Journey" feature with pre-emptive GPS fetching and zero-delay jump logic.
- **Navigator Mode**: Precision plotting tools with real-time **Distance**, **Azimuth**, and **Slope** calculations.
- **GPS Monitoring**: Real-time location tracking with **Smart Reconnect** technology (auto-buffer during signal loss).
- **Visual Feedback**: Dynamic marker shapes (Diamond vs Circle) and colors (Indigo vs Yellow) to distinguish edited points.
- **Optimized Controls**:
  - **Desktop**: Smooth scroll zoom (1/600 rate), inertia-based panning, and orbit controls.
  - **Mobile**: Touch-optimized with pinch-to-zoom centering, stable rotation, and simplified 2D gestures.

### ⚡ Performance & Offline
- **PWA Support**: Fully offline-capable using Service Workers and IndexedDB.
  - **Smart Caching**: `StaleWhileRevalidate` for map styles/fonts and `CacheFirst` for static assets (30 days).
  - **Offline Navigation**: SPA fallback ensures app loads even without internet.
- **Offline Maps**: Download map regions for use in remote areas without internet connection.
- **Mobile Optimization**:
  - Adaptive pixel ratio (max 1.5x) for battery saving.
  - Reduced polygon count and simplified shaders for 3D markers on mobile devices.
  - Optimized `backdrop-blur` effects to reduce GPU load.
  - **Passive Event Listeners**: Improved scroll performance and touch interaction.
- **State Persistence**: User preferences (Map Style, View Mode, Camera Position, Custom Locations visibility) are automatically saved via `Zustand` middleware.

## 💎 Subscription Plans & User Roles

Landscape 360 offers flexible plans tailored to your needs, integrated with a Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) system:

| Feature | **Starter (Free)** | **Pro** | **Enterprise** |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **Max Download Size** | 1 MB | 10 MB | 25 MB |
| **Offline Maps** | 1 Region | 3 Regions | 10 Regions |
| **Saved Surveys** | 2 Surveys | 4 Surveys | 10 Surveys |
| **GPS Tracking** | ❌ Disabled | ✅ Broadcast & View Self | ✅ Broadcast & View Self |
| **Realtime Monitoring** | ❌ Disabled | ❌ Disabled | ✅ **Monitor All Users** (Requires `monitor360` Role) |
| **Support** | Community | Priority | 24/7 Dedicated |

### 🔐 User Roles
- **`pengguna360`**: Standard user. Can track their own location and broadcast it (if Pro/Enterprise).
- **`monitor360`**: Command center role. Can monitor all active users on the map in real-time. **Requires Enterprise Subscription.**

> **Note:** GPS Tracking & Monitoring features require an active internet connection. Offline buffering (Smart Reconnect) is available for temporary signal loss.

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

- **Core**: React 19, TypeScript, Vite
- **Mapping**: Mapbox GL JS, Three.js (Custom Layer Integration)
- **Geospatial Analysis**: Turf.js
- **State Management**: Zustand (with Persist middleware)
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS v4, Lucide React (Icons)
- **Backend/Data**: Supabase (PostgreSQL + PostGIS)
- **Testing**: Vitest, React Testing Library

## 📂 Project Structure

For a detailed technical overview, please refer to [ARCHITECTURE.md](ARCHITECTURE.md).

```bash
src/
├── assets/            # Static assets (images, icons)
├── components/        # React components (Map, Panels, Layers)
│   ├── ControlPanel.tsx   # Main UI controls
│   ├── MapBoxContainer.tsx # Core map logic
│   ├── OfflineManager.tsx # Offline map handling
│   └── ...
├── lib/               # External libraries configuration (Supabase)
├── store/             # Global state management (Zustand)
│   ├── useMapStore.ts     # Map state (zoom, center, style)
│   └── useSurveyStore.ts  # Survey data & user plans
├── utils/             # Helper functions (Geo calculations, DB)
└── App.tsx            # Application entry point
```

## 📦 Installation

1.  **Clone the repository**:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/yourusername/landscape-360.git
    cd landscape-360
    ```

2.  **Install dependencies**:
    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

3.  **Environment Setup**:
    Create a `.env` file in the root directory:
    ```env
    VITE_MAPBOX_TOKEN=your_pk.eyJ...
    VITE_SUPABASE_URL=your_supabase_url
    VITE_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=your_supabase_key
    VITE_ENABLE_GPS_TRACKER=...
    ```

4.  **Run Development Server**:
    ```bash
    npm run dev
    ```

5.  **Build for Production**:
    ```bash
    npm run build
    ```

## 📱 Mobile Support

Landscape 360 is fully responsive and optimized for mobile devices. It automatically detects the device type to adjust rendering quality, ensuring smooth performance even on mid-range smartphones.

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

<p align="center">
  Developed by <strong>Rizky Ajie Kurniawan</strong> • Jakarta, Indonesia - 2026
</p>

Commit message:

**Custom Basemaps (Pro/Enterprise)**:   - **Upload Support**: Import **GeoTIFF** and **GeoPDF** files (max 150MB) as georeferenced overlays.   - **Auto-Reprojection**: Automatic conversion of projected coordinates (e.g., UTM) to WGS84 using `proj4`.   - **Interactive Georeferencing**: Visual "Pick on Map" tool with drag/resize/rotate controls for PDF/Image alignment.   - **Performance Optimized**: Client-side downscaling (max 2500px) and PNG conversion for fast, bandwidth-efficient mobile rendering.

README.md, after:

# Landscape 360 | Professional-grade 3D terrain engine for outdoor enthusiasts platform.

![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)
![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-2.0.0-green.svg)
![Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-production-orange.svg)
![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/react-v19.0.0-blue)
![PWA](https://img.shields.io/badge/PWA-Supported-purple)

**Landscape 360** is a high-performance, web-based geospatial analysis platform designed for professionals. It combines precision 3D mapping, real-time contour generation, and advanced survey tools into a seamless browser experience.

<p align="center">
  <img src="src/assets/wp.png" width="600" alt="Landscape360 Watermark Preview" />
</p>

## 🚀 Key Features

### 🌍 Advanced Visualization
- **Dual-View Engine**: Seamlessly switch between **2D Topographic** and **3D Terrain** modes.
- **Dynamic Contours**: Real-time client-side contour generation using `Turf.js` based on viewport elevation data.
- **Multi-Style Maps**: Switch between **Streets** (Vector), **Outdoors** (Topo), and **Satellite Streets** (Imagery) for versatile context.
- **Split-Screen Mode**: Compare 2D and 3D perspectives side-by-side with synchronized camera movement.
- **Custom Basemaps (Pro/Enterprise)**:
  - **Upload Support**: Import **GeoTIFF** and **GeoPDF** files (max 150MB) as georeferenced overlays.
  - **Auto-Reprojection**: Automatic conversion of projected coordinates (e.g., UTM) to WGS84 using `proj4`.
  - **Interactive Georeferencing**: Visual "Pick on Map" tool with drag/resize/rotate controls for PDF/Image alignment.
  - **Performance Optimized**: Client-side downscaling (max 2500px) and PNG conversion for fast, bandwidth-efficient mobile rendering.
- **Map Controller**: Intuitive Zoom In/Out buttons and simplified gesture controls for desktop and mobile.
- **Data Source & Attribution (POIs) **: Toggleable POI (Points of Interest) layer built from independently curated GeoJSON data. Supports clustering for large datasets to ensure optimal map performance and clarity..
- **Carousel UI (Mobile)**: Optimized "Tools & Exploration" panel with horizontal swipe interaction for better usability on small screens.

### 📍 Navigation & Survey
- **Instant Geolocation**: "Start Your Journey" feature with pre-emptive GPS fetching and zero-delay jump logic.
- **Navigator Mode**: Precision plotting tools with real-time **Distance**, **Azimuth**, and **Slope** calculations.
- **GPS Monitoring**: Real-time location tracking with **Smart Reconnect** technology (auto-buffer during signal loss).
- **Visual Feedback**: Dynamic marker shapes (Diamond vs Circle) and colors (Indigo vs Yellow) to distinguish edited points.
- **Optimized Controls**:
  - **Desktop**: Smooth scroll zoom (1/600 rate), inertia-based panning, and orbit controls.
  - **Mobile**: Touch-optimized with pinch-to-zoom centering, stable rotation, and simplified 2D gestures.

### ⚡ Performance & Offline
- **PWA Support**: Fully offline-capable using Service Workers and IndexedDB.
  - **Smart Caching**: `StaleWhileRevalidate` for map styles/fonts and `CacheFirst` for static assets (30 days).
  - **Offline Navigation**: SPA fallback ensures app loads even without internet.
- **Offline Maps**: Download map regions for use in remote areas without internet connection.
- **Mobile Optimization**:
  - Adaptive pixel ratio (max 1.5x) for battery saving.
  - Reduced polygon count and simplified shaders for 3D markers on mobile devices.
  - Optimized `backdrop-blur` effects to reduce GPU load.
  - **Passive Event Listeners**: Improved scroll performance and touch interaction.
- **State Persistence**: User preferences (Map Style, View Mode, Camera Position, Custom Locations visibility) are automatically saved via `Zustand` middleware.

## 💎 Subscription Plans & User Roles

Landscape 360 offers flexible plans tailored to your needs, integrated with a Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) system:

| Feature | **Starter (Free)** | **Pro** | **Enterprise** |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **Max Download Size** | 1 MB | 10 MB | 25 MB |
| **Offline Maps** | 1 Region | 3 Regions | 10 Regions |
| **Saved Surveys** | 2 Surveys | 4 Surveys | 10 Surveys |
| **GPS Tracking** | ❌ Disabled | ✅ Broadcast & View Self | ✅ Broadcast & View Self |
| **Realtime Monitoring** | ❌ Disabled | ❌ Disabled | ✅ **Monitor All Users** (Requires `monitor360` Role) |
| **Support** | Community | Priority | 24/7 Dedicated |

### 🔐 User Roles
- **`pengguna360`**: Standard user. Can track their own location and broadcast it (if Pro/Enterprise).
- **`monitor360`**: Command center role. Can monitor all active users on the map in real-time. **Requires Enterprise Subscription.**

> **Note:** GPS Tracking & Monitoring features require an active internet connection. Offline buffering (Smart Reconnect) is available for temporary signal loss.

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

- **Core**: React 19, TypeScript, Vite
- **Mapping**: Mapbox GL JS, Three.js (Custom Layer Integration)
- **Geospatial Analysis**: Turf.js
- **State Management**: Zustand (with Persist middleware)
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS v4, Lucide React (Icons)
- **Backend/Data**: Supabase (PostgreSQL + PostGIS)
- **Testing**: Vitest, React Testing Library

## 📂 Project Structure

For a detailed technical overview, please refer to [ARCHITECTURE.md](ARCHITECTURE.md).

```bash
src/
├── assets/            # Static assets (images, icons)
├── components/        # React components (Map, Panels, Layers)
│   ├── ControlPanel.tsx   # Main UI controls
│   ├── MapBoxContainer.tsx # Core map logic
│   ├── OfflineManager.tsx # Offline map handling
│   └── ...
├── lib/               # External libraries configuration (Supabase)
├── store/             # Global state management (Zustand)
│   ├── useMapStore.ts     # Map state (zoom, center, style)
│   └── useSurveyStore.ts  # Survey data & user plans
├── utils/             # Helper functions (Geo calculations, DB)
└── App.tsx            # Application entry point
```

## 📦 Installation

1.  **Clone the repository**:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/yourusername/landscape-360.git
    cd landscape-360
    ```

2.  **Install dependencies**:
    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

3.  **Environment Setup**:
    Create a `.env` file in the root directory:
    ```env
    VITE_MAPBOX_TOKEN=your_pk.eyJ...
    VITE_SUPABASE_URL=your_supabase_url
    VITE_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=your_supabase_key
    VITE_ENABLE_GPS_TRACKER=...
    ```

4.  **Run Development Server**:
    ```bash
    npm run dev
    ```

5.  **Build for Production**:
    ```bash
    npm run build
    ```

## 📱 Mobile Support

Landscape 360 is fully responsive and optimized for mobile devices. It automatically detects the device type to adjust rendering quality, ensuring smooth performance even on mid-range smartphones.

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

<p align="center">
  Developed by <strong>Rizky Ajie Kurniawan</strong> • Jakarta, Indonesia - 2026
</p>
